---
title: Testimonials
layout: default
---

# {{ page.title }}

This is a test.

## foo

Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody. When has justice ever been as simple as a rule book? I will obey your orders. I will serve this ship as First Officer. And in an attack against the Enterprise, I will die with this crew. But I will not break my oath of loyalty to Starfleet. Our neural pathways have become accustomed to your sensory input patterns. Wait a minute - you've been declared dead. You can't give orders around here. Now, how the hell do we defeat an enemy that knows us better than we know ourselves? Flair is what marks the difference between artistry and mere competence. Wouldn't that bring about chaos? I suggest you drop it, Mr. Data. The game's not big enough unless it scares you a little. Captain, why are we out here chasing comets? Could someone survive inside a transporter buffer for 75 years? The look in your eyes, I recognize it. You used to have it for me. We know you're dealing in stolen ore. But I wanna talk about the assassination attempt on Lieutenant Worf. I'll be sure to note that in my log. You're going to be an interesting companion, Mr. Data. I am your worst nightmare! I'll alert the crew. Besides, you look good in a dress. Maybe we better talk out here; the observation lounge has turned into a swamp. My oath is between Captain Kargan and myself. Your only concern is with how you obey my orders. Or do you prefer the rank of prisoner to that of lieutenant? Earl Grey tea, watercress sandwiches... and Bularian canapés? Are you up for promotion? Then maybe you should consider this: if anything happens to them, Starfleet is going to want a full investigation. Sorry, Data. Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Fate protects fools, little children and ships named Enterprise. Fear is the true enemy, the only enemy. I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir.

## bar

Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody. When has justice ever been as simple as a rule book? I will obey your orders. I will serve this ship as First Officer. And in an attack against the Enterprise, I will die with this crew. But I will not break my oath of loyalty to Starfleet. Our neural pathways have become accustomed to your sensory input patterns. Wait a minute - you've been declared dead. You can't give orders around here. Now, how the hell do we defeat an enemy that knows us better than we know ourselves? Flair is what marks the difference between artistry and mere competence. Wouldn't that bring about chaos? I suggest you drop it, Mr. Data. The game's not big enough unless it scares you a little. Captain, why are we out here chasing comets? Could someone survive inside a transporter buffer for 75 years? The look in your eyes, I recognize it. You used to have it for me. We know you're dealing in stolen ore. But I wanna talk about the assassination attempt on Lieutenant Worf. I'll be sure to note that in my log. You're going to be an interesting companion, Mr. Data. I am your worst nightmare! I'll alert the crew. Besides, you look good in a dress. Maybe we better talk out here; the observation lounge has turned into a swamp. My oath is between Captain Kargan and myself. Your only concern is with how you obey my orders. Or do you prefer the rank of prisoner to that of lieutenant? Earl Grey tea, watercress sandwiches... and Bularian canapés? Are you up for promotion? Then maybe you should consider this: if anything happens to them, Starfleet is going to want a full investigation. Sorry, Data. Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Fate protects fools, little children and ships named Enterprise. Fear is the true enemy, the only enemy. I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir. What? We're not at all alike! In all trust, there is the possibility for betrayal. We finished our first sensor sweep of the neutral zone. Computer, belay that order. I can't. As much as I care about you, my first duty is to the ship. You enjoyed that. I'm afraid I still don't understand, sir. Damage report! Mr. Worf, you do remember how to fire phasers? A surprise party? Mr. Worf, I hate surprise parties. I would *never* do that to you. Talk about going nowhere fast. Mr. Crusher, ready a collision course with the Borg ship. You did exactly what you had to do. You considered all your options, you tried every alternative and then you made the hard choice. Shields up! Rrrrred alert! and attack the Romulans. That might've been one of the shortest assignments in the history of Starfleet. This is not about revenge. This is about justice. A lot of things can change in twelve years, Admiral. About four years. I got tired of hearing how young I looked. This should be interesting. Why don't we just give everybody a promotion and call it a night - 'Commander'? Now we know what they mean by 'advanced' tactical training. Yes, absolutely, I do indeed concur, wholeheartedly! Smooth as an android's bottom, eh, Data? I guess it's better to be lucky than good. I've had twelve years to think about it. And if I had it to do over again, I would have grabbed the phaser and pointed it at you instead of them. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody. But the probability of making a six is no greater than that of rolling a seven. I recommend you don't fire until you're within 40,000 kilometers. Well, that's certainly good to know. Computer, lights up!

### baz

asdfasdf
